They took on a lot of different subjects. They were
truthful and sincere about it. They didn't follow
journalistic rules,
which tries to say there's such a thing as
objectivity, which if you get out and analyze
what's objective and what's subjective, you're
going to run into major problems. Everybody that
writes something is making decisions about
what's in there and what's not in there and what
words are used. and how you string those together,
what questions you ask, what questions you don't
ask. So they let people write, you know, this is
what I believe, this is what I see, and it had a big
impact, not only on just the activist community
and helped to build resistance, but it had an
impact on the media at that time. And that leads me
to another thing that we did together, a bunch of
them, We held media conferences, had three of them
in Texas, and I think this is reported in the
Observer. I'm not sure. We had one in Austin, the
first one. We had one in Dallas, and we had one in
Houston. The basic, the original idea came from
Alice Embree, the woman I was telling you about a
minute ago. She was one of the original people that
worked on the RAG, helped put it together. She's
also one of the people who was active in National
SDS, went to New York City early, on she really knew
a lot understands a lot still does very intense
wonderful person and she had this idea that we
could reach a lot of these people in the media these
reporters don't like for a goddamn editor or
publisher to say, you can't do this, don't do this,
write this, don't write that. It makes horrors out
of piss. Who the hell have I? I can't tell the truth.
And of course, there are the ones who still do that
write a lot of the stories or feed a lot of the
stories to the observer and other folks where they
cannot have their name attached to it because they
lose their job. At any rate, Alice's idea was that
we can reach a lot of these media people, and we'll
get some better stories, and we'll get some more
information from within, if we do reach them, and
not in any manipulative way. In other words, make
all of this open. What we're trying to do is open up a
dialogue between reporters and TV people and
radio people and the new left. So we had these new
left media comments. I did the advance work on that
again. She knew a good many of the media people and I
did too because I'd worked in Texas Liberal
Democratic Party politics and I knew how to get
around all the stations and newspapers and hand
out press releases and bullshit and drink
martinis and all that crap. And we had a good
conference. We got a lot of young media people.
And In Dallas, I don't know how many we had. I guess
we probably ended up with 30 or 40. We had people
there from the Dallas Morning News, the Dallas
Times, Arrow, the major TV stations. Of course,
the underground media, I forgot the name of that
one. There was a good underground paper up there.
And these weren't folks just there to rat on us to
their owners. Well, there were some of those, but a
lot of very sincere young people in the media. And
it worked well. I mean, they found out, people
always find out when they get out of their little
isolation boxes that there are a lot of other
people that are worried about the same things
they're worried about and have some of the same
problems. And that it is possible to do a few
things, and sometimes it's possible to do a whole
lot, but you've got to do them together. At any
rate, all of that dynamic occurred because they
told each other horror stories about, you know,
You know, when such and such story came out, well,
here's what really happened. This is why I
couldn't do this. And they said, well, listen to
this. And God damn, if the American people as a
whole could have heard all of that stuff on TV, it
would have been great. The problem always is
reaching folks so that they can get information.
We did that one in Dallas. We did one in Houston. We
did one here. A lot of those people, it changed
their lives, too. I know here locally, there were
two women. There were reporters on the American
station, Austin American, who quit. Not
immediately thereafter, but in recent years,
said that those media conferences had an impact on
what they decided to do with their lives. They
decided they weren't gonna continue writing the
same old shit and doing the same old thing.
Even though one of them is now She's a poet and a
writer. Fiction. Short story.
Okay. Tonight, you know, we're talking about
Rubin and Hoffman.
Two people who know a whole lot about the media. And
really changed a lot of things as far as is the way
the media looks at things now, because they
manipulated the hell out of the media. They pulled
a lot of good theater. I mean, they've dramatized
things where then one TV station would have to
carry it, because if they didn't, another one
would. And first thing you know, demonstrations
and a whole lot of the different activities were
getting coverage just because the nature of the
competition between some of the capitalists They
had the same basic principles, but they felt like
they had to carry this stuff. So they opened
themselves up to being manipulated. And I guess
you heard about the one where Abbie Hoffman went
into the Wall Street exchange and threw dollar
bills all over the floor of the stock exchange that
day. They had all those fucking clerks and guys
scrambling around on the floor picking up dollar
bills. Which, if you think about it, there are
these young clerk guys out of Harvard and Yale
trying to climb the squirrel cage, get up the
ladder, and button boys for million-dollar
purchases. But there comes a dollar bill down on
the floor, and there they are scrambling after. At
any rate, it showed some of the contradictions of
what was going on. The
media, a lot of them were very sympathetic. You
know the chuck wagon case?
Long times past, I wouldn't even talk about this. I
mean, all the legal ramifications yet is, is,
uh, is over.
Uh, that TV people there, they were there that day
of the demonstration, got all kinds of footage and
after
the arrest and after the, It became clear that the
establishment here in Austin was going to try to
make felony cases out of this, which is
ridiculous. They were trying to send people to
prison
for relatively minor free speech activities.
What they did was contact
us individually and surreptitiously. Thank you.
And there's two of them. They made it possible. I
was in charge of collecting the evidence. And we
had to have good security on that because some
evidence is helpful, some evidence is harmful.
And it's not the defense's responsibility on the
so-called American system to make the case for the
prosecution. So I'm under no responsibility to
help the state make a case. The contrary is not true
about the state, by the way. They're supposed to
open up and disclose what they have, which is what
happened in this Hurricane Carter case. You know
about that? This guy just got out of prison. It's
been 19 years. Bob Dylan wrote the song about him.
Well, what happened in that case, the prosecution
did not make a lot of information available that
would have been helpful to the defense in that
case. Finally, 19 years later, a fucking judge
says, no, that ain't part of our constitution. Let
the guy out. Of course, he's 19 years late. A lot of
orgasms went by, and that Ford joker's in a pen. So I
have problems with the legal system. It doesn't
work. 19 years, and I'm sorry I made a mistake. At
any rate, those media people, what they did,
several of them contacted me. I had a good
reputation, still do, at least in that respect.
I've been discreet and trustworthy, and made that
footage available. us to look at for two reasons.
One, to know what the prosecution had. And then
some of it was for us to decide whether or not we
wanted the prosecution to have it. And of course,
we made that decision. And they helped.
And that's within, in fact, Lady Bird's TV
station. And that's a TV reporter. Fuck you. And
they hated the man that was in Lady Bird. And they
hated the war. But, you know, what can they do about
it? Well, one of them helped us a lot because some
footage got destroyed that wouldn't have helped
at all. And plus, we got to see everything that the
district attorney was going to be able to use. The
same way with still photographs. A lot of people
always take pictures of major demonstrations, of
course. As you'll learn if you're active, a whole
lot of them are FBI. And if the president's around,
a whole lot of them are Secret Service. But there
are always a lot of cameras around. And so then when
a legal case comes out of all that, you've got
hundreds of photographs that you've got to try to
figure out how they're going to be used. The media
helps in that. Now, these are individual people in
the media that are helping. So in a way, it's not the
question. The question, of course, is what is
media policy? How are they going to handle
something? That's a whole different thing.
They're going to be opposed to you. You're going to
have a very difficult time. The TV, I rarely watch
the TV news things except when there's something
so burning that I have to watch it just to know if the
roof's going to cave in. Because they extract one
sentence and that's supposed to be the story. And
you've got to have a lot more information than that
to make any kind of decision.
A lot of that stuff in the Middle East is that way.
You just get the tip of the iceberg. The way they
carried that story about when the United States
hijacked an Egyptian plane, like in Crime Against
Humanity. I mean, Reagan and the so-called big
boys, they decided, screw the law, international
law. This Egyptian airline plane has got
something we want. We're going to take it and put it
over here and get what we want. Of course, the media
didn't care that way. I mean, what they cared was
getting the bad boy. The hell with international
law. And the media still hasn't talked about it in
truthful terms.
And that's something that's scary.
If we're not careful, American people may get so
jaded and so cynical about what's permissible and
what isn't that we'll lose our sense of outrage.
And if we lose that in our sense of compassion,
we're in real problems as humanity. How
did you drop out of the establishment in the
mid-60s? I mean, the establishment as in the
Democratic Party, per se. Well,
by then, I think I'd learned from the civil rights
movement that the basic changes were not going to
come through electoral politics through the
reasoning with elected officials or just by
registering people and getting out the vote. If
you know what the candidate selection process is,
how a person gets to be a candidate, what's
required, I've gone through that with
candidates. I've traveled all over this state for
two months with that guy who ran for governor,
going to all the towns and cities of any size,
talking to so-called opinion-maker rich folks.
Folks, you have to line up to try to get a candidacy
off the ground. That process, along with how
election campaigns are conducted, the media, the
access to the media, particularly TV in the last 20
years, 30 years, the print media, how it's
manipulated, what its interests are, what it will
permit and not permit, if you know all that stuff,
then which I was beginning to get very acute at in
the 1963 and 64 Corps. We'd been taking licks from
Jack Kennedy and Lyndon Johnson and a whole bunch
of folks. And I was beginning to know when somebody
was hitting me in the head. And I saw that, like
Lyndon said, I mean, he's very honest on this one
subject anyway, the squeaky wheel gets the
grease. Well, what he's saying is if you raise
enough hell and put enough pressure on it, to those
things that don't basically change the system,
you may get some relief, which is what happened to
the Civil Rights Movement. We got some relief. But
that was by massive pressure, and it was 1964 that I
said, fuck it. Electro-politics will never work.
We're never going to get basic change. We're never
going to have a society that feeds and clothes and
works on loving relationships between people as
long as we have The property system and the legal
electoral system that we've got now, we cannot
change it from within. Of course, that was an
ongoing debate for years about whether you had to
work from within or without. You can get some
changes from within. The basic ones, you cannot.
The big rich are not going to share the wealth.
There ain't no way. You've got to take it away from
them. Mal's right about that. how you do that. I
don't want to do it with a gun, but probably at some
point, if we're so fortunate as to be able to start
changing property and human relationships,
there will be a major confrontation between the
big rich and the rest of us. So that's why I quit. The
traditional, you know, I realized that The basic
change I was interested in, everybody having
enough to eat, enough clothing, and enough
liberty and freedom and loving relationships,
was not going to be addressed by the American
system. And it didn't. It still isn't. You know,
something that's real fascinating to me is this
year, Have you noticed how many of these big
benefits, musical benefits, the contradiction
between them and what Reagan and the
establishment's putting out is just fantastic.
They put together that Aid for Africa thing. And
here's the fucking big boys who've got their
wealth rolling in and out of Africa, saying,
everything's a fucking door over, just leave it
alone, be quiet, boys. And of course, the
musicians and all these folks get it together, a
big event. And then what happens? Willie Nelson
and the others farm aid. Now, what Reagan and
everybody's saying, farmers, that's tough.
You're just a little old bitty farmer. I'm sorry,
son, you lose. Del Monte, that's okay. But
American agriculture is okay. And then Willie
Nelson and them, big problem. We've got to have a
big concert and benefit for the farmers. And down
in New Orleans, the jazz and blues people, they're
having a big one. for the poor people in New
Orleans. And of course Reagan said, there ain't no
politics, blah, blah, blah. And then they're
doing the same thing out in California about the
AIDS sign. Because the administration doesn't
want to admit that we've got a major, which that's a
tragic social major problem we've got occurring,
is AIDS, and that's terrifying. If you think about
it, I'm not talking about just the gay community,
I'm talking about everybody. We better lick that
son of a bitch quick. And yet we're not doing it.
applying the resources and expertise to it. But
again, there's a group of people that are getting
together who have big names, big drawing power,
and saying, you're lying. There is a big problem,
and we ain't doing nothing about it. Capitalism is
not geared to taking care of certain basic
problems. It's geared to benefit a relatively few
people. That's my speech for the day. And, of
course, I would like to say that the ongoing
dilemma for me, as it is for a whole lot of folks, is
what to do with my life. Day to day, what do I do next?
I have a hard time with that. We had Emma Jo's. It was
easier because there are a number of groups and
organizations and activities around town, and we
could plug into them. We could have benefits for
them. We could give them a forum. We could
publicize a number of things we could do that were
useful but we don't have that place anymore. And
you have
to make a living. You have to come up with enough
money to feed yourself and shelter yourself,
which, by the way, is much different than the
1960s. From about 1964 to 1968,
I lived on what they called the couch circuit back
in those days, which means I lived everywhere with
friends in the living room or the couch on the
floor. And then I had a relationship with a dear
woman, a lover for about five or six years. And then
that broke up, and again I was on the couch for a year
and a half. That's when there was heavy political
activity going on. It was a widespread sense of
community. In other words, people didn't mind as
much. We were real honest about it. You know,
you're staying too long, Mark. You've been here a
week. getting on my nerves, or my larder's low and I
can't support you, you better find some other
place to go. But we were happy to have you come back
again some other time. So there was a community of
interest which doesn't exist now. But it's very
difficult, I think, now to find those things that
you can work on that make a real difference. We've
got several here in Austin, there's groups
working on that refugee problem out of South and
Central America. the anti-nuclear group, the
Peace and Justice Coalition has been here. We have
some Chicano groups that do some good things, and
some of the student groups, the PLO, not PLO,
Palestinian student groups try to get a lot of
information out about what's going on in the
Mideast with Israel. But what I... What I think is
that there are a whole lot of people like me who have
basically the same convictions. A lot of new
people, but certainly a lot of people older that
went through some of the same experiences I did.
That come the time, if Reagan tries to invade
Nicaragua or the Mideast, do something totally
outrageous. Nothing. I'm not saying a thing like
Renato, which is going to stomp it or something.
What a joke that was. But if he tries to do something
outrageous, then there will be large numbers of
people, a lot of Vietnam vets, that will come
unglued, that will get with young people in a
hurry. And young people ain't going to want to go
fighting in any banana republic about who gets the
big money. And we were talking about the military
and what's the else they understood when they lost
the military. Now they've got a pretty much
mercenary military. And it's heavy black in
Chicano because those are the poorest categories
of groups that don't have more opportunities
outside the military, so it's heavy black in
Chicano inside. Well, there's one thing that I
think the big boys learned in Vietnam. is that
people of color just ain't too happy about being
sent by the white man to go kill some more people of
color. So if they try to send them to Nicaragua or
Salvador, they may have some of the same problems
they had in Vietnam. White officers getting their
ass shot. By black and Chicano enlisted. Is
there anything else you wanted to go into? No, as
you can tell, you've got me all excited. I've been
rattling for three or four hours. But I've enjoyed
it. I hope it'll be helpful.
You want some of the rag people that... Rag people,
and just people that were active in the 60s in
Austin. Right. Of the rag, there's a man named
Thorne Dreyer, first name T-H-O-R-N-E, last name
D-R-E-Y-E-R. Currently in Houston. His family
has a prominent art gallery there. He's one of the
founders and heavy activists in the rag. Alice
Embry, last name's spelled E-M-B-R-E-E. in
Austin, Texas, active in the RAG. She can be
reached, by the way, you'd look in the phone book on
that other one. She can be reached by contacting
Alice Gwynn. Alice Gwynn's name is spelled
L-Y-C-E, last name G-U-Y-N-N. name and number in
the phone book. She knows Alice Embry's married
name, which I don't. Her husband is an artist and
works for the city. He's Chilean. Alice knows a
whole lot about Chile. She spent a whole lot of time
in Chile. Alice Embry would be a good person to talk
to because she's active in the rag here locally.
She knows a good bit about the rap, which is a very
prominent New York underground paper. active in
the women's movement, knows a whole lot about
international Chilean relations and how that all
developed and is still developing. At any rate,
knows quite a bit. Dave Mahler, last name
M-A-H-L-E-R, Austin phone book. Worked on the rag
for years. Now works with what's called the
Wilderness Basin in Austin, which is some acreage
right on the outskirts of Austin where they're
trying to preserve a certain habitat. His friend
and lover at the time active on the rag, also in the
phone book, Judy Walther, W-A-L-T-H-E-R.
Marion Bizarre, last name spelled B-I-Z-A-R-D,
Austin Pohnbook, works on some TV, cable TV,
community cable TV committees, one of the
activists and longtime people with the RAG. The
National SDS officers that came out of this area,
Joe, by the way, I can't give you a lease on all of
them because I don't know, but Robert Pardun,
P-A-R-D-U-N, I think he's somewhere in the
Midwest, one of the smaller farming communities,
but I'm not sure. I know he lived in a commune in
Arkansas for a couple of years. A man who is here
locally, who's quite articulate and very
knowledgeable, who was active in the rag and who
started the rat in New York City, and is now
getting... and he's very active in obtaining the
new TV franchises the federal government's
putting out in smaller-sized cities, is Jeff
Nightbird. Last name, N-I-G-H-T-B-Y-R-D,
one word. Former name, formal name, family name,
you know, old-time name, Jeff Shero,
S-C-H-E-R-O, but now is known legally as Jeff
Nightbird. Bobby
Nelson, Bobby J. Nelson. Married, but name listed
in the phone book under her name. Very active in the
movement law office and with the women's
movement. active in an A&M case where they forced
them to recognize gay organizations. She had that
case originally. In fact, I went down there when
the initial interviews were going on. That was
very interesting, the way they tried to shut that
down. She also brought the first sex
discrimination case against the University of
Texas, representing an art professor. Very
prominent case. At any rate, Bobby Nelson, very
knowledgeable, intelligent, articulate. Okay,
some of the people that I now have political
differences with but really respect and have a lot
of knowledge,
they're apt to be more leery than some of us about
talking.
Lori, L-O-R-I, Hanson, H-A-N-S-E-L. very active
in the late 60s early 70s and continues to be active
rick piltz p-i-l-t-z a former government
professor at the university of texas very
knowledgeable about that era and and also the
spread rail he was on the opposite side Stuart,
S-T-U-A-R-T, Hirsch, H-I-R-S, H-I-R-S-C-H. I
had to spell it, funny spell it. He used to be on the
faculty, now the city government building
inspection department, I believe.
Movement Law Office, Brady Coleman. Listed in
phone book. Jim Simons, listed in phone book.
Vivian Mahalop, last name M-A-H-L-A-B. They have
law offices together and know a lot about what's
going on. Mal Greenstein, last name spelled just
like you'd think. One word. Listed in phone book.
Does a lot of the work now on the east side with
Chicanos and Blacks. Billy
Hope, P-O-P-E,
listed in the phone book. He's the executive
officer of, I don't know the exact title of the
research and resource center that exists in
Austin about affairs in South and Central
America.
David Perry, Ph.D., doctor of government, used to
be at the University of Texas, currently with New
York State University at Albany. Fred Cohen used
to be the university professor of law, currently
with New York State University at Buffalo, by the
way. This is part of the purge that occurred in the
early 70s when the University of Texas got rid of
all people that left liberal persuasion.
Ray Sacks, last name S-A-C-H-S, Ph.D., doctor
of physics faculty at the University of
California at Berkeley. He used to be an SDS
faculty sponsor here.
Well, in Houston, Texas, B.T. Bonner, Jr.
B.T. is my age, 50-year-old black man, extensive
experience in the black civil rights movement,
Southern Leadership Conference, and all the
civil rights demonstrations in Texas during that
20-year span.
Ernie Cortez, last name, I think it's
C-O-R-T-E-S, out of San Antonio, he's I think
Terry Anderson will probably know that group he
works with. It's Chicano issue oriented. It's a
Saul Alinsky type group that I mentioned, the
Acorn. They have a lot of affiliations with church
groups and businesses. They try to get funding for
small minority businesses.
Oh, great source. Francis Barton, B-A-R-T-O-N.
Frances is, I think, finishing up her PhD. She's on
the, has been, I guess still is, on the Texas
Observer staff.
Of course, Larry Goodwin, professor of history,
Duke faculty, history faculty, knows a lot about
the early 60s. Not so much the new left SDS, but a lot
of the civil rights movement. An
older... Oh, Glenn Scott. G-L-E-N-N-S-C-O-T-T.
That's a woman. She's married, keeps her maiden
name, and I think it's listed in the phone book.
She's been very active in media and has put
together some, with other women, put together
some films that are available about historical
Texas women and They were organizers of various
sorts, either labor organizers or Chicano
organizers. And if he's looking for a program
sometime or a class, and she's a very good speaker.
Elaine, what does she call herself now? Elaine
Brightwater. Yeah. phone book extensive
experience in the 60s with the Chicano farm
workers movement and then later with the women's
community currently we helped establish and
helps operate a birth clinic which is to help women
who don't want to go to the hospital and don't have a
lot of money. became a nurse. She went through.
She's a great woman.
John Muir, last name spelled M-U-I-R. Maybe he
listed an awesome phone book. He's currently one
of the key staff members with the South Texas
Chicano-oriented legal group that he helps to
raise legal support and money for the activities
in the valley. Somebody will know the name of that
organization. I don't. The Observer's got it
listed somewhere in their table of organizations
in the back. John Muir is very knowledgeable, very
articulate.
Larry Dave's, last name D-A-V-E-S, attorney,
Tyler, Texas. He fought a courageous fight in East
Texas. He finished law school and went over there.
A lot of the black radical labor, all the unpopular
stuff, as usual.
Oh, look. there is an older woman a woman i guess in
her late 60s now one of my dearest friends my oldest
daughter is named after her her name is latane
l-a-t-a-n-e lambert l-a-m-b-e-r-t active in the
30s 40s 50s 60s 70s 80s experiencing Everything.
She started out in theater, and she and her husband
were active in organizing the pecan shellers in
San Antonio. A great story. They got married, and
their wedding, they had all strikers, their own
strike. It was winter. Big warehouse. They all got
together. Of course, they'd been living
together, sleeping lovers for a long time, but it
was decided by powers that be they ought to get
married. It wasn't good PR as far as the Chicanos,
who were very Catholic church oriented. They got
married. He later, George Lambert, was an
international representative of the
International Ladies Vomit Workers Union. It was
a very radical, dynamic type union. Anyway, on
their wedding night, they had the strike going on,
and George went out to the picket lines. And it was
colder than hell, and so the picket people, they
got a barrel, which was common, and had sand in it,
poured gas on it, and lit a fire to warm their hands
while they were on the picket line. And they
arrested him, and she said she didn't get to fuck
him for two weeks.
But Latane knows a whole lot. In fact, part of her, I
think her own papers, plus her husband, who's now
dead, and there was a big article in the Observer
about it when he died, A lot of his papers are
currently on file at the University of Texas at
Arlington. They relate more to Texas labor
history. Latane's been active in everything
that's come down the pike. She's currently a state
employee, works for the Texas Department of
Community Affairs.
I think it's more, I'll let you know, unless
there's certain areas. I could go on and on about
people that I think know a whole lot.